So which things do we have to know and to keep in mind regarding our media queries right here?
The first thing to keep in mind is what I told you already, the way you read such a media query is basically
like an if statement.
You basically say that if a condition that is specified right here is true, then the following code will
be applied,
that's the easiest way to remember such a media query
and based on my experience, also the most logical way.
That's the first thing to keep in mind,
think of media queries just like if statements
and this brings me to the second important thing that we have to keep in mind, because I mentioned it
before, we will now design our website from a mobile first perspective.
This means all our code outside the media queries is our mobile code,
so the code that specifies the look of our website on mobile devices
and with that, our media query logic so to say, the media query should kick in once we are above this
border,
so once our min width is equal or larger than the value we specify right here is true.
But of course, you could also create your website
the other way round
and although I do not recommend that, as I said we live in mobile times, so users will more and more access
your website from mobile devices,
so why not start creating a website with this mobile first approach
but you could of course also create your website desktop first.
This would basically mean that all the code we have right here is the code that makes sure that your
website looks good right here
in the desktop view, right here for example
and as you can see, we might have to work on the image again because apparently my changes were not the
smartest ones but we will have a look at that soon.
However, this could be a starting point, you could say I built my website for desktop devices and my media
queries should only help me to define a mobile design.
Well then you would simply turn this min width right here into a max width because this simply tells you
that the media query should only kick in in cases where the maximum width of your viewport is equal
or smaller than the value you specify right here.
That's of course the other way round we do it right there because if we have a viewport that is for
example 13rem, then this code would be true. If we have a look at our code now, like that, let's
reload the page,
you can see that we have a smaller font size right here and if I would now decrease our size, like that, then
you would see that the font size gets bigger once we are equal or below our 640 pixels
but that's of course not the way we wanted to have right here because we want to build our website mobile
first,
so let's add min width right here, like that.
If we do that and reload the page, you can see we have a bigger font size right here.
But these are the two approaches you have; mobile first and desktop first and basically you are free
to choose whichever approach you want
but I will recommend building or using the mobile first approach.
The third thing that you should keep in mind is that you are of course not limited to a single media
query,
you could also add multiple media queries below each other,
for example if we copy that media query right here and add it right there, then we could say that we
do not want to have our website to be built for two devices, mobile and desktop for example, but we also
want to have a version for really large devices for example and let's say that the large devices
start right here at 60rem, for example
that's the second border we have, the second limit we have. There we could say that the height of our image
should be 50 and the font size should be 5rem for example,
that's also possible.
So as you can see, we have both media queries written below each other.
Now if we go back to our website and reload it, we can see that the behavior in the beginning remains
the same,
here we have our mobile design, then we have the border of 640 right here where the second design kicks
in
and if we make it bigger,
can you see it? Then
the third design kicks in right there
and that's also really important to keep in mind. You can have more than one media query at the same time,
that's not a problem because although this media query right here, our last one, is coming after this
one in the code,
it will not overwrite the query right here, so the property right here, our font size 5rem will not
overwrite the 3rem we have in our other query because although it comes later in the code,
so based on the cascading nature we already know, you could assume that but as these properties will
only become true if there the query,
so if this if statement is true, this is not a problem at all.
So you can add multiple media queries below each other which are specifying different limits.
Of course if I would add the min width of 40rem right here like that, then this would be a problem
because then, it would be overwritten as you can see right here, because the media query right here is
true,
this is also true but this one comes later in the code,
therefore the cascading nature comes into play
and with that, only the rules right here would be applied
but as soon as you change different limits for your media queries, this is not a problem at all.
However there is one problem though because as I said, the code will just run from top to bottom and
apply the media queries according to their order basically
but this only works if you specify the order correctly.
This means you have the width right here with 40rem
and then you have the next border with 60rem. If you would turn that around and start with 60rem right here
and then go down to the 40rem,
what will basically happen then is your code goes from top to bottom and finds that this media query right
here is true,
so this if statement is met and this would lead to the following behavior, you would start right here
with your mobile design, then you have 640 pixels right here with our
first breaking point and this is OK as you can see right here,
we have our min width of 40rem
but the problem is that this is of course not true for all widths we have because the code simply
goes from top to bottom,
finds that this condition is met,
so it will always apply this code right here,
it cannot jump back to the 60rem of course.
Therefore the important thing is that you order your media queries according to the correct width.
This means you start with the smaller width right here, the 40rem and then with 60rem for the second
media query
and with that, we can now ensure that our browser always uses the media
query that applies now because we can see, we now have our two breaking points again because the browser
simply goes from top to bottom,
finds this query, says OK this is applied
and as soon as this if statement is true, it will apply that latest code right here.
So that's really important,
the order also matters right here for our media queries. So we can add multiple queries,
that's not a problem,
multiple media queries also targeting the same selectors and the same properties but we have to make
sure that our conditions are set correctly and in combination with that, we can really create different
stylings for our website for different devices.